CONTACTS
2024 - 2029
+254 710842239
info@labourpartykenya.ke
thelabourpartyofkenya@gmail.com
www.labourpartykenya.ke The Strategic Plan
616 Twiga Towers, Moi Avenue
The Editorial Secretariat Labour
Party of Kenya 2024-2029
Labour Party Labour Party Labour Party
of Kenya of Kenya of Kenya
---PAGE---
(cid:31)(cid:30)(cid:29)(cid:28)(cid:27)(cid:26)(cid:25)(cid:24)(cid:23)(cid:22)(cid:21)(cid:26)(cid:20)(cid:24)(cid:27)
(cid:19)(cid:18)(cid:17)(cid:16)(cid:15)(cid:29)(cid:24)(cid:14)(cid:29)(cid:13)(cid:24)(cid:27)(cid:26)(cid:15)(cid:27)(cid:26)(cid:12) Since its founding in 1998, Labour Party of Kenya (LPK) central themes has been to strengthen its position as a key political party in order to
contribute to the consolidation of representative democracy. LPK has carried out indispensable functions such as channeling the demands of
citizens, developing policies and programs, selecting candidates for the Executive and Legislative powers, as well as monitoring the sitting
government. These are functions that in present-day democracies forward looking political parties must continuously engage in.
1
Introduction ....................................................................................................... 2
We would like to express our deepest gratitude to Netherlands Institute for Multiparty Democracy for developing a Strategic Planning Tool for
Political Parties that became a focal point for utilization and generation of the strategic plan developed.
2 We would also like to thank the Centre for Multiparty Democracy in Kenya for providing the institutional and implementing framework for the
Vision, Mission and Core Values............................................................................. 3
Strategic Planning Program for the ten political parties involved.
We recognize the office of the Registrar of Political Parties in offering a supportive role in the implementation of the Strategic Planning Tool hence
playing a big role not only as a regulator but an enhancer of institutional capacity development of political parties.
3
Our Guiding Principles ................................................................................................ 4 We are also eternally grateful to the socialist family (Socialist International (SI) and International Union of Socialist Youth (IUSY)) for the great role
they have played in inspiring Labour Party of Kenya to pursue a Progressive Social Democratic Agenda in attainment of its political goals more
so through experiences gained in conferences and workshops in which LPK has participated in.
4
Our Commitment to the Workers ................................................................................. 4
Finally, we wish to celebrate the LPK leadership under our party leader Hon. Prof. Julia Ojiambo and the entire LPK staff in accomplishing the
overall strategies envisioned the Strategic Plan. It is through their hard work, dedication, collaboration, and expertise and of course with the
support of the party members that they will bring these initiatives to fruition.
5
Background Information ........................................................................ 5
6
Emerging Key Strategic Issues and Objectives .............................................................. 8
7
The Strategic Objectives and Strategies ......................................................................... 12
8
Resource Mobilization & Risk Management ................................................................. 16
LPK Strategic Plan Page 1 LPK Strategic Plan Page 2
---PAGE---
(cid:11)(cid:30)(cid:29)(cid:10)(cid:20)(cid:12)(cid:20)(cid:24)(cid:27)(cid:9)(cid:29)(cid:8)(cid:20)(cid:12)(cid:12)(cid:20)(cid:24)(cid:27)(cid:29)(cid:18)(cid:27)(cid:23)(cid:29)(cid:13)(cid:24)(cid:25)(cid:15)(cid:29)(cid:10)(cid:18)(cid:16)(cid:22)(cid:15)(cid:12) (cid:7)(cid:30)(cid:29)(cid:6)(cid:22)(cid:25)(cid:29)(cid:5)(cid:22)(cid:20)(cid:23)(cid:20)(cid:27)(cid:4)(cid:29)(cid:3)(cid:25)(cid:20)(cid:27)(cid:21)(cid:20)(cid:2)(cid:16)(cid:15)(cid:12)
a. The Youth and women
b. Improved quality of life for all
c. Total elimination of inequality and poverty
d. Globalization
(cid:26)(cid:30)(cid:29)(cid:29)(cid:30)(cid:28)(cid:27)
(cid:1)(cid:30)(cid:29)(cid:6)(cid:22)(cid:25)(cid:29)(cid:13)(cid:24)(cid:127)(cid:127)(cid:20)(cid:26)(cid:127)(cid:15)(cid:27)(cid:26)(cid:29)(cid:26)(cid:24)(cid:29)(cid:26)(cid:129)(cid:15)(cid:29)(cid:141)(cid:24)(cid:25)(cid:143)(cid:15)(cid:25)(cid:12)
Empowering the citizens
of Kenya to form a Labour parties all over the world are anchored on the philosophy of social reforms that
give all workers that equal share of the well-being that was in olden days only enjoyed
government that will ensure
by fortunate classes. It is our collective belief as social democrats that the state is the
a classless society that
agency whose full power should be exerted for the betterment of the material interests
guarantees socio-economic
of the people. The state must enact indiscriminate labour laws, determine minimum
prosperity for all.
conditions of health, security and comfort of the workers, ensure favorable
compensation against the four great contingencies threatening the economic security
of the individual-accident, sickness, old age and inability to find work, means its failure
(cid:31)(cid:30)(cid:29)(cid:30)(cid:28)(cid:27) (cid:25)(cid:28)(cid:24)(cid:23)(cid:22)(cid:31)(cid:21)(cid:20)(cid:19)(cid:23)(cid:29) to meet that duty which it is the prime function of a constitutional government under the
bill of right of life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness.
To be the best social Integrity
democratic party in Africa Democracy
Respect for citizen’s rights Respect
for rule of law Gender equity.
Equity and meritocracy Commitment
Justice
Accountability
LPK Strategic Plan Page 3 LPK Strategic Plan Page 4
---PAGE---
(cid:144)(cid:30)(cid:157)(cid:18)(cid:21)(cid:143)(cid:4)(cid:25)(cid:24)(cid:22)(cid:27)(cid:23)(cid:29)(cid:28)(cid:27)(cid:14)(cid:24)(cid:25)(cid:127)(cid:18)(cid:26)(cid:20)(cid:24)(cid:27)
f. The Political Parties Act 2011 (PPA 2011)
d. Our Local and International
The Political Parties Act 2011 (PPA 2011) provides for the registration of
Engagement political parties as well as funding and regulatory framework, within which
a. Who are we? b. Our Journey
political parties are required to operate within.
The Labour party of Kenya was first registered under the Societies Act on Since its formation, the Labour Party of Kenya has been an active 1. Elected Representation: The PPA 2011 places an enormous task on political parties to have at least
30th March 1998 and later under the PPA2007. The party fully complied with player in Kenyan politics. The Party's political platform for the past 2. PPF Coalition Forum 24 county offices with staff operating in them. This legal requirement places
the new Political Parties Act. 2011 (PPA2011) and has been registered as a ten years has been that of a Progressive Reform agenda. Our 3. Centre for Multi Party Democracy a financial obligation on the parties without factoring in the much-needed
Political party, Registration Certificate No. 3 on the 29th March 2012. motivation as LPK was to see a new constitutional dispensation 4. Socialist International (SI) sources of income. Other legal requirements of the PPA2011 such as
5. Socialist International Women Congress submission of audited accounts, publication of declarations in the public
that propagated democracy in all forms.
The party is over Sixteen years old since inception and was founded on Labour party participated greatly in the formulation of the Bomas 6. International Union of Socialist Youth (IUSY) dailies among others does place financial cost element on political parties
social democracy as its political ideology, with a major focus on the welfare Draft and consequently in the 2005 referendum to defeat the Wako 7. Women Academy for Africa (WAFA) as well.
of workers, gender parity and equal opportunities for all the Kenyan people Draft that was being sneaked in, in pretext of the Bomas draft. 8. Civil Society Movement LPK realizes and appreciates that resource mobilization is the key driver to
– to include the disabled people and minority groups, existing harmoniously August 2010 saw a new dawn in Kenya when the New the vibrancy of a political party to remain relevant and engaged politically in
in a peaceful and just society. CONSTITUTION was promulgated. It is worth noting that great the country.
e. The Constitution of Kenya
gains in terms of social justice, human rights, devolution, gender
The Labour Party of Kenya has a membership of approximately 46,000 parity and representation were achieved. With promulgation of the new constitution in August 2010,
members spread in thirty counties across Kenya. In the legislative front, Labour party has contributed to enactment came the ominous task to begin unpacking the constitution in g. Kenya’s Political Landscape
Hon. Prof. Julia Ojiambo and Mr. Martin Gavole are the current National of laws governing the Cotton Industry, Nutrition, Public order to ensure the Kenyan citizenry realizes the promises
Since the last General elections in March of 2022, Kenya has been engulfed
Chairperson and Secretary General of the party. Procurement procedures and Gender parity and affirmative action. enshrined in the new constitution. A number of articles of the
in a myriad of issues without any clear-cut solutions in sight to address the
constitution recognize the sovereign power of the people and
challenges.
envisages representative and participatory political
c. The Party Structure The year 2022 saw erosion in our national moral fabric especially in the
engagement is on offer.
recorded massive corruption in the public sector, mutilation of the
The LPK party structure comprises of the following: Having a robust multiparty democracy is not an option but a constitution as well as the rule of law by the ruling elite, the enactment of a
must hence the need for political parties to realign their
new media law that eroded previous gains made in the attainment of free
political agenda in line with the constitution. This can only be
media in Kenya among others. The newly elected government has also
1. The National Delegates Congress 6. The Party Branches and Sub Branches attained through a clearly defined roadmap in a strategic
been oblivious of the public opinion, starting on a bad footing by escalating
plan. Labour Party of Kenya seeks to strategically position
the corruption to new levels where people close to power can be seen to
2. The Supreme Council 7. The National Elections Board itself as a progressive social democratic party that resonates
show opulence, extravagance and arrogance never witnessed before in the
with the wishes and aspirations of Kenyans in accordance.
history of our Country. All the different arms of governance have been
3. The National Executive Council 8. The National Appeals Board
subdued by the executive and the two houses charged with voicing the
interest of the people that is the National Assembly and the Senate are now
4. The Party Secretariat 9. The Disciplinary Committee.
just goons for hire to rubber-stamp the wishes of the executive.
The failure of the government to listen to the public opinion led them to
5. The Party Congresses (women, youth, Disability and Marginalized groups)
impose heavy taxation on the people amid very high cost of living, that was
epitomized by the parliament passing unpopular finance bill 2023\2024
leading to a historical revolt by the
LPK Strategic Plan Page 5 LPK Strategic Plan Page 6
---PAGE---
Priority areas for the Labour Party’s future
young people who call themselves the GenZ generation. The ever-mushrooming Government wage bill continues to take center stage as a national
debate on the same rages on, every season the government officials continue to increase their salaries, without growing the economic to improve the 1. To revamp the party structure and ensure functionality of all party organs in accordance with the party
quality of lives of the people they governed. constitution and also in line with the new devolved structure
2. Focus on continuous party profiling
3. Capacity building of party membership in the counties
Stakeholder Analysis
4. Ensure women, youth, disability and marginalized groups are mainstreamed into the party’spolitical agenda
Through the strategic planning tool, a stakeholder identification process and analysis were carried out by the Project team and the NEC. The diagram 5. Continuously engage on Labour issues and be in the fore front of the Labour movement.
below shows the identification of the party stake holders both internal and external. 6. Activate new party branches in the counties to ensure public participation through LPK
7. Focus on establishing training and study centers for disseminating information and training
8. Build capacity of secretariat staff on a regular basis.
External Stakeholders Internal Stakeholders 9. Develop partnerships with media, NGOs, and other interested stakeholders
01 Workers Unions, The Public 01 The Party Leadership
(cid:30) (cid:127)(cid:15)(cid:25)(cid:4)(cid:20)(cid:27)(cid:4)(cid:29)€(cid:15)‚(cid:29)ƒ(cid:26)(cid:25)(cid:18)(cid:26)(cid:15)(cid:4)(cid:20)(cid:21)(cid:29)(cid:28)(cid:12)(cid:12)(cid:22)(cid:15)(cid:12)
02 NGOs’ (CMD/NDI etc.) 02 The NEC
(cid:29)(cid:29)(cid:29)(cid:29)(cid:29)(cid:18)(cid:27)(cid:23)(cid:29)(cid:6)(cid:17)„(cid:15)(cid:21)(cid:26)(cid:20)…(cid:15)(cid:12)
03 Government, Registrar Political Parties, IEBC 03 The Secretariat
This chapter outlines the key emerging issues in the application of the strategic
04 Socialist International 04 The Party membership in the counties
planning tool and from which strategic objectives are derived and developed into key
strategies and activities for implementation. Take note of the party’s focus areas outlined in
05 Media, Colleges/Universities 05 Elected Party representatives chapter 2. The focus areas have now been collapsed into thematic areas for better
understanding and implementation.
06 Other Political Parties
a) The new Devolved Structure at County Level
With promulgation of the new constitution, the country’s governance structures
The party viewed the internal stakeholder as any person, group or organization inside the political party that can make claim on the party’s
became devolved to counties hence more resource allocation to the counties
attention, resources or outputs, or that is affected by the party’s outputs.
setting the stage for increased governance structures and enhanced public
engagement and participation at county level. It is only prudent that the party
Similarly, the party also in turn views an external stakeholder as any person, group or organization inside the political party that can make claim
reviews its existing party structure in order to ensure effective party participation at
on the party’s attention, resources or outputs, or that is affected by the party’s outputs.
both national and county level through its existing party structure.
LPK Strategic Plan Page 7 LPK Strategic Plan Page 8
---PAGE---
b) Public Consciousness and Awareness
d. Low Level Management and Inclusivity e) Resource Mobilization
Today the Kenyan populace is more conscious on political matters than before. The promulgation of the new constitution set the stage for more and
enhanced public participation in leadership and governance structures. Kenyans are seeking active avenues through which to participate and engage on of Youth, Women, Persons with Disability
Political Mobilization is "the process of forming crowds, groups,
leadership and governance issues both at county and national level.
associations, and organizations for the pursuit of collective political
and Marginalized Communities in Governance
agenda". Political Organizations do not "spontaneously emerge" but
Political parties provide the right forums and platforms for people to collectively air their opinions on the way they are being governed or offer alternative
require the mobilization of resources.
Engagement, participation and inclusivity of Youth, Women, Disabled
political solutions to emerging political challenges.
The existing new law on funding of political parties has resulted in
persons and marginalized communities in political activities is still a major
about 95% of the parties missing out on funding hence posing a great
concern both at national and county level. These groupings have continually
challenge to the advancement of democracy. There are various
found it difficult to be involved in mainstream politics despite the concerted
resource needs in starting political organizations (technology, labor,
c) Emerging Political Challenges legal framework provided constitutionally. The representation of women in
capital, organizational structure, societal support, legitimacy, etc.).
elective assemblies in Kenya is still below the 30% threshold set by the
Almost all political parties in Kenya are similar in the manner in 05 06 07 08 United Nations in trying to equalize gender distribution in elective LPK must now clearly address the issues of resource mobilization in
which the Kenyan public views them. No single party can claim representation globally. order to have a well thought and structured approach to its political
ownership of a specific national agenda or even claim to spear head It’s the duty of political parties to create structural interfaces within their agenda both internally and externally. Resource mobilization will be
a particular cause for the Kenyan people. organizational outlook and operational outlay that will deliberately include look at in three key areas that is:
The ongoing The existing Rising High 1. Financial base and capacity
and enhance the participation of the youth, women, disabled persons and
Since the last General Election on 4th March struggles with confrontation insecurity in unemployment the marginalized communities. 2. Human resource
our sovereignty between the the country rate among the
2013, a lot of issues have emerged on 3. Asset base and party structure
in the Judiciary and youth, and the
Kenya’s political landscape offering great challenges
international the Legislature threat of
to the very existence of the nation itself. space terrorism etc.
01 02
03 04
These are some of the challenges
The passing of The onslaught The rogue The war
the draconian by government parliament that between the witnessed in the past one year
and punitive on the civil is misusing its senate and the
media bill into society tyranny of national
law. movement numbers assembly
LPK Strategic Plan Page 9 LPK Strategic Plan Page 10
---PAGE---
f) Low Level Representation in Governance h) Existing Leadership Gaps and j) Party Foundation
Structures Membership Lacking in Political Leadership As much as a lot of the conflicts experienced today around the country and globally are politically instigated, it is very difficult to build bridges and make
peace with the warring factions while in political attires/gloves. To have any chance of arriving at any tangible peaceful resolution engaging a neutral
Elective representation is a key factor in determining a party’s strength
To revitalize the country’s leadership as well as party leadership and perspective might be the starting point.
both at national and county level and equally sets the stage for political
ensure continuity in leadership both at party level and at national level, Political parties are not only formed to wrestle for power but to be vehicles for positive change through various initiatives (mostly socio-economic and
engagement, participation and the possibility to influence policy formation
LPK MUST tackle fundamental questions such as: - peaceful activities). But to be effective in some of these initiatives it then becomes necessary to use alternative means such as the party’s foundation.
as well as implementation. The importance of having more elected
1. What is leadership and why is it important? LPK has an existing foundation already in place hence the most important thing will be to activate the foundation and strategically engage it in the party’s
representatives in legislative assemblies is therefore a critical goal that
2. What kind of leadership contributes to effective, legitimate governance political agenda in activities that may seemingly need a neutral perspective in terms of active participation. Such activities may include charity activities as
any serious political party wanting to impact the socio-economic fabric of
in nations and communities? well as peace initiatives and events.
its citizenry, must consider and take as a primary objective to creating
3. How can you evaluate your leadership for governance?
change.
4. How can you develop the next generation of strong leaders? †(cid:30)(cid:29)(cid:19)(cid:129)(cid:15)(cid:29)ƒ(cid:26)(cid:25)(cid:18)(cid:26)(cid:15)(cid:4)(cid:20)(cid:21)(cid:29)(cid:6)(cid:17)„(cid:15)(cid:21)(cid:26)(cid:20)…(cid:15)(cid:12)(cid:29)(cid:18)(cid:27)(cid:23)(cid:29)ƒ(cid:26)(cid:25)(cid:18)(cid:26)(cid:15)(cid:4)(cid:20)(cid:15)(cid:12)
To date LPK doesn’t have any county representation in the 47 county
assemblies and no elected member of the National Assembly or Senate. Training of leaders in a political setup is a very important aspect of
This is a great deterrent to the party in pushing for legislative changes in developing sound leaders for a nation. As political parties seek to be in From the emerging issues identified above, strategic objectives to be achieved in the planning period and strategies to be implemented to achieve the objectives
the respective assemblies at national and county level. charge of government, they have an ultimate responsibility to provide have been developed.
good and credible leadership that is visionary and well- articulated for
Policy formulation will form a critical focus point for the party in being able purposes of good governance. These aspects of leadership cannot be Strategic Direction #1
to influence legislative change that has an impact on the lives of Kenyans left to chance hence the need to develop training needs, resources To Strengthen Party Organs/Structures
in being able to generate positive change and expected training outcomes through a structured framework.
Training of leaders as well as empowering Kenyan citizenry on FOCUS:
leadership and Governance is therefore is an emerging key issue that To develop clear party internal strategies on how best to operationalize
g) International and Local Solidarity the party seeks to critically look into in its strategic planning in the next the various party organs ensuring that each organ delivers on its mandate and functions while at the same time working in tandem with the other
5 years. party organs.
Engagement
No political struggle has ever been worn singularly. Solidarity of purpose i) Workers Voice on Editorials The party structures that are to be strengthened are the
is key in pursuing political goals from an ideological standpoint that is
The Kenyan worker today is at the very core of the country’s economy yet
shared by likeminded individuals as well as political parties. Best
a majority of them lack a voice or a medium through which they can voice
practices and experiences of successful political agendas always set
their opinions and share their challenges/struggles. The workers unions
the stage for learning platforms to be shared and emulated. 01 02 03 04 05 06
out there have failed in agitating for better working conditions and
LPK’s political agenda mustn’t be an internal party agenda identified
and owned by only its members but also a political struggle that remuneration of the Kenyan workers. the party
resonates with those individuals and parties belonging to the same Congresses, The Supreme The Annual The party
political school of thought/ideology. The party has to seek out Labour Party Kenya despite its name has equally failed to fill in the gap Secretariat The NEC (women, youth, Council and Delegates Branches and
partnerships both locally and internationally as this will form an integral occasioned by poor representation of the Kenyan workers. There is a disability and Congress. Sub-branches
part of the resource mobilization strategy as well as exchange of best growing need to voice the struggles of the Kenyan workers and to share marginalized
practices and experiences in political leadership. in their plight as well as agitate for better working conditions. LPK is groupings)
seeking to provide that medium through print media as one of its key
strategic issues.
LPK Strategic Plan Page 11 LPK Strategic Plan Page 12
---PAGE---
Strategic Direction # 2 Strategic Direction #3 Strategic Direction #4 Strategic Direction #5 Strategic Direction #6 Strategic Direction #7
Increased Party Membership To Profile the Party and Position it Strengthening Engagement, To Develop Sustainable Resource Increased Representation in Develop and Strengthen
in the Counties as a Party of choice for most Kenyans Representation, Inclusivity of Youth, Mobilization Strategies Governance Structures International and Local Solidarity
Women, Disability and Marginalized
FOCUS: FOCUS: FOCUS: FOCUS:
FOCUS: Communities
To continuously recruit new party members To develop sound and clearly thought-out To have a parliamentary group and county To work with likeminded political parties,
To strategically front and position Labour Party
into the party primarily focusing on the party’s resource mobilization strategies that will assembly group for each of the party branches organizations and individuals who share the
as a party of choice for most Kenyans by FOCUS:
ideology. There is need to increase the center on sustainable fundraising strategies after the next General election. This same ideological platform in addressing
ensuring the party focuses on mundane issues To continuously and deliberately focus on
membership of the party at county level with and proper human resource development and Parliamentary and County groups form part of common global challenges and having
that affect and resonate with the aspirations of mainstreaming women, youth and disability
an emphasis to increase participation and utilization within the party. the leadership at county level and will be key agreeable international political standpoints
the wananchi. groups in party political activities and national
engagement of the party at county level. The party aims to constitute a resource strategic drivers of influencing policies and that outlines solutions that are grounded on
This strategic objective includes identifying politics. The youth and women form a large
LPK currently has a membership base of mobilization committee whose mandate will be change. the socialist ideology.
critical areas within the party that affect the part of Kenya’s population and yet their level
approximately 46,500 members in 27 primarily to fundraise for the party based on It is very important that LPK dominate the This will involve establishing bilateral relations
party image and have direct bearing on of political engagement still remains quite low
counties. There is need to scale up the needs identified. The treasurer of the party political arena by having enough leaders in with other likeminded political
general public perceptions on how the party when viewed from political parties and elective
membership of the party in at least 47 shall be assigned the co-ordination role both the county and parliamentary assemblies; parties/organizations and individuals that
looks and the potential it possesses. assemblies.
counties across the country in order to ensure whereas the NEC shall be in charge of the this will help us create checks and balances to profess socialist ideology while at the same
national outlook and ownership of the party entire process. the activities of other active political parties, time seeking to share best practices and
agenda by the Kenyan people. This is the core of the party’s affairs and influence national policy and decision making experiences through exchange programs.
focuses in material and human resources as well as create monitoring and control
needed to run all the affairs of the party i.e. mechanism for the excesses of the ruling
secretariat, public engagement, party. The political leaders will also help to
communication and leadership strengthening. keep the ideology, vision and the mission of
It is also critical to have enough resources to the party alive Ensure constant engagement of
implement socio-economic development the party with the general public, attract local,
programs for the youth, women, elderly, regional and international material and human
people with disability and other vulnerable support to the party and maintain the
groups as well as facilitate political campaigns. party-political relevance.
LPK Strategic Plan Page 13 LPK Strategic Plan Page 14
---PAGE---
‡(cid:30)(cid:29)ˆ(cid:15)(cid:12)(cid:24)(cid:22)(cid:25)(cid:21)(cid:15)(cid:29)(cid:8)(cid:24)(cid:17)(cid:20)(cid:16)(cid:20)‰(cid:18)(cid:26)(cid:20)(cid:24)(cid:27)(cid:29)Š (cid:29)ˆ(cid:20)(cid:12)(cid:143)(cid:29)(cid:8)(cid:18)(cid:27)(cid:18)(cid:4)(cid:15)(cid:127)(cid:15)(cid:27)(cid:26)
Strategic Direction #8 Strategic Direction #9
Strategic Direction #10
To Establish a Leadership Institute To Develop Editorials that agitates
To promote and realize Labour standards a) Resource Mobilization
for Democracy and Governance and Advocates for the Rights
and fundamental principles and rights of
of Kenyan Workers
FOCUS: Kenyan workers and safe work The Labour party of Kenya previously had funding from the political parties’ fund and this was in accordance with the PPA 2007 which allowed all
To develop training needs and a curriculum environments. political parties to be funded. The new act PPA 2011 however introduced a 5% threshold for funding and effectively locked out 95% of the political
FOCUS:
aimed at instituting in-house training of parties. Labour party of Kenya was locked out of the funding bracket as well.
To develop through print media a medium
party members of LPK. The focus of this In addition to the government funding LPK had other sources of funding which included Membership contributions, Sale of membership cards, and
through which to agitate for the plight of the
FOCUS:
training will be to ensure that all donations in kind which only added up to 12% of total income received within the last financial year.
Kenyan workers as a critical party niche in 1. Lobby for workers’ rights that guarantee decent
membership within the party shall have a LPK’s secretariat budget per financial year without involving programs and activities at county level is approximately KES 15-million. With the
Kenya’s political landscape. pay hence ensuring dignity of life
proper understanding of the party ideology Strategic Plan now in place the stage is set for more spending by the party.
The Kenyan Labour Movement has been 2. Lobby for workers’ rights that promote safe
and be able to articulate the party policies
poorly represented over the years by the working environments
in accordance with the party ideology.
various players who should have stood up for 3. Lobby, agitate and influence progressive b) Risk Management
The leadership institute will also focus on
the rights of Kenyan workers. LPK is equally at legislation on Labour in Kenya.
training party members on leadership and
fault for seizing the opportunity to do so. LPK 4. Assist Kenyan workers to solve labour related In implementing this plan, there are a number of risk factors to the implementation process. The matrix below summarizes possible risks to this plan
governance principles based on party
wants to stand out as the “Workers Party” and disputes by connecting them to legal services including a ranking and suggested mitigation strategies.
ideology, principles and values.
strongly believes that print media is the 5. Undertake Labour related surveys within the
The leadership institute will have a set of
starting point of the agitation battle towards sector to effectively advise and inform the No. Risk Factor Rank Risk Management
trainers who initially begin by conducting
ensuring the voice of the Kenyan worker Kenyan workers and the populace at large on the
the trainings using study centers at various remains heard at all times. state of Kenya’s Labour market. 1 Ownership of the Plan High Consultation, inclusion and consensus
locations in the country.
6. Become a credible source of information on
matters Labour in Kenya and across the continent. 2 The PPA 2011 High Push for amendments in the Act
7. Offer progressive policy frameworks on Labour
3 Volatile Political landscape High Be aware and re-strategize
exportation and importation from and into
Kenya with a singular aim of protecting the
4 Existing capacity of secretariat High Establish funding mechanism
fundamental working rights of Kenyan workers
8. Conduct awareness campaigns on the plight of Source for funding from donors and likeminded individuals
5 Financial resource High
Kenyan workers both within Kenya and in the and organisations
diaspora.
6 Dynamic Technological inventions Medium Invest in ICT and training
9. To develop close relations with workers unions
both nationally and globally for purposes of
7 Stakeholders interest Medium Involve them from the start
synergizing on workers’ rights.
10. Actively campaign against all forms of Child
External interference Medium The party leadership must be assertive
8
Labour
11. Building international solidarity on Labour issues
9 Membership Resistance to change Medium Proper structures with effective communication strategy
globally
12. Host workshops/conferences/ seminars/ festivals
10 Negative Perception of the Kenyan public towards political parties Medium Positive publicity and engaging the public on a continuous basis
etc. on rights and dignity of life for workers.
Non commitment and adherence to the monitoring and
11 Low Establish loyal party members who are sold out to the course
evaluation process
LPK Strategic Plan Page 15 LPK Strategic Plan Page 16
---PAGE---
